There are several challenges when it comes to email marketing. The ability to successfully deliver messages, the message creation, timing email delivery, all of these are aspects of email marketing that make this topic a challenging one. In fact, for these reasons and probably a few more the concept of open source email marketing has been practically non-existent. This is one reason why Mautic, and [open source marketing automation](https://www.mautic.org/marketing-automation-software/) has been so incredibly successful. For those not yet ready to dive into all that marketing automation can do for them, Mautic provides an incredible open source email marketing platform. Previously we’ve looked at how you can [begin using Mautic for level one email marketing](https://www.mautic.org/blog/email-marketing-level-one/) and just getting started. In this article we’ll look at a few specific ways you can use Mautic for your email marketing.

### The "Bi-Whenever" Newsletter

Some companies send newsletters every week, some send them bi-weekly, or some even send bi-monthly. Mautic gives you the power to send your bi-whenever newsletters quickly and efficiently. Using Mautic for your email marketing means being able to track clicks, opens, bounces and more. All the features you would expect to find in an email marketing system can be found in Mautic. But unlike the others, Mautic lets you run everything on your own server, or [integrate](https://www.mautic.org/integrations/) with direct email sending providers (SendGrid, Mandrill, Amazon, etc…) more on this later.

### The Special "Offer-vent"

You may also want to send emails to an audience when you have a special offer or event you want to tell them about. Maybe you want to let them know about something coming up and give them a special invitation. You want to be able to send each person a custom email and make it a personalized invitation. Mautic helps you with this in two ways. First, Mautic has an incredible page builder and email builder which you can use to quickly and easily create beautiful emails. You can create these emails with an easy-to-use drag and drop interface. Secondly, with Mautic as your open source email marketing system you can easily personalize every email and yet send only once. Using email templates you can bulk send emails to you lists of contacts and personalize each one (automatically).

### The Welcome Tickle

Lastly, you may want to configure your open source email marketing system to send an [automatic (and personal) email](https://www.mautic.org/blog/the-power-of-personal-emails/) to those users who have just signed up or subscribed to your services. Maybe they bought something or downloaded something or just asked for more information. With Mautic you can have triggers to automatically send an email when a form is submitted. This is great for a couple of reasons. First, this email can be sent immediately when the form is submitted (everyone likes instant gratification), or secondly, you can have Mautic schedule the email to send later at a pre-determined time. Maybe you want to make them wait a day before your email them. Whatever the reason and whatever the time, [Mautic lets you create and send the welcome email when you want](https://www.mautic.org/marketing-automation-software/drip-marketing-campaign/).

### The Spam Dilemma

Now, we should address one of the biggest concerns with an open source email marketing system. If you are familiar with marketing automation and sending bulk emails then you know one of the biggest hazards is getting blocked by SPAM filters. If you’re not careful you will have your server quickly blacklisted and your carefully crafted emails will never find the beautiful inbox of your intended recipient. We’ve been able to help solve this problem with a few creative solutions. First, you can define and create an opt-in process (required in some countries), quickly and easily within Mautic.

Second, with Mautic you can send the emails through your own server but if you rather you can just as easily have the actual email sending occur through a third party. This means if you want to have Mandrill (or others) send your emails it is as easy as adding in two pieces of information and you’re done. Mautic handles the rest for you.

### You Can Do Amazing Email Marketing

Open source marketing automation may be a relatively new and unfamiliar concept, but just about everyone understands email marketing. Mautic is the best open source email marketing software because it gives you everything you need to run powerful email marketing campaigns but also prepares you for using marketing automation as you become more familiar and comfortable with the idea. Your email lists, your contacts, your campaigns will already live within the best marketing automation system!